Welcome to the stage, Optimist, Author, and Founder of the Curve, Simon Sinek.
Yes. Thank you. Thank you very much. So obviously you're all here for Scott Galloway.
Scott is one of those people who pushes you to see the world differently. It's one of the reasons
I love him and love his work. He also puts himself out there in a way that I think very,
very few others can or want to. He's so vulnerable and shares with us the struggles that he's going
through that we can relate to. But more important, his views on the world, his perspective on how it
works are different than everybody else, which is why we have to listen to Scott. He doesn't always get
his predictions right, but we have to listen. Ladies and gentlemen, Scott Galloway.
Thanks. Thank you. My name is Scott Galloway. I teach at NYU. I have 147 slides and
2400 seconds, so let's light this candle. So in the spirit of transparency,
I don't know Simon how well I don't like him very much, but it's a power move to have him introduce
me. Okay, so I got home pretty late last night and decided to reorient the slides. I fiddled with
the slides up until the time I present them, and I thought given that we're on a cruise ship,
and I met a lot of people last night who are in the business of travel that we would try and talk
about. Travel, I'll make some predictions around tech. It's kind of around the world
towards basically whatever I just wanted to talk about tonight. And then hopefully we'll leave
some time for my favorite part, Q&A. We have a pretty intimate crowd here tonight,
so I'm going to try and leave some time for Q&A. Okay, we're going to talk about the economy,
travel, transportation, what else, because we didn't get enough of that today,
income inequality. I'm worried about the shit I've created after I've made tens of millions of dollars,
but I'm Dr. Frankenstein, and I think Frank might have some violent tendencies. I'm concerned.
Yeah, fuck you, figure out what we do. I'm going to talk about loneliness,
and then I'm going to try and wrap up with, quote unquote, some perspective.
So if you weren't reading every day that we were about to have a recession,
where would the evidence of any recession be? I think that inflation is going to come down
as quickly as it went up. AI, the rider's strike, which will end in tears for the riders.
For the first time, people are not as confident negotiating pet bereavement leave and the growth
economy. I think you're about to see wage pressure come way down, and you're about to see inflation
come way down, back to historic or more normal levels. And I'm not sure. I studied economics,
but I don't consider myself an economist, but I don't see any signs of a recession. As I said,
inflation is coming way down. Unemployment is at historic lows. Now, some people would argue,
well, there's discouraged workers, you have the wrong denominator here, but we essentially have
historically low unemployment, retail sales are strong. We've ripped through about four to five
trillion dollars we handed out during the pandemic, and we're ripping through another
hundred billion a month. So there is some credence to the argument. I'm trying to stand over here,
that in about 10 months, people are going to run out of money. But right now, it doesn't appear
unless you were looking at the media that you'd see any real signals that were going into a
recession. All of a sudden, we're starting to see people talk about earnings calls or in earnings
calls use the term soft landing as opposed to recession. They're even starting to soften their
tone. There's an effect that when you worry about something or the moment you really begin to start
worrying about something, the odds of it happening go way down, right? It's the shit you don't see
coming that gets you. None of us really saw the pandemic coming. Remember Greek sovereign debt
that was supposedly going to collapse and take down all of Europe or that all elevators were
going to start stop working New Year's 2000. It's a general survival instinct that if you worry about
something long enough, you unconsciously prepare for it and you avoid it. So we have been talking
so much about the recession that I wonder if we're probably not going to, it's not going to
register. Where we are seeing a recession is what I call the Patagonia vest recession.
I have two entries. I'm credited with two entries in the urban dictionary. The first is yoga babble,
which is how I describe the we work prospectus. And then I just got my second one and that is the
Patagonia vest recession. And that is the growth economy has had so many calories stuffed down.
It's esophagus that it's built up fatty deposits everywhere. And if you understand
balance sheet economics, essentially, if you have gross margins of 20%, which is great gross
margins or operating margins, excuse me, of 20%, you can either add $5 a new income of new revenue
to your company, or you can cut a dollar of expenses. And you have the same net effect on
shareholder value. So the most actionable or significant on the ground impact or strategy
of 2023 isn't AI, it isn't supply chain. It's everybody in every boardroom has seen what Elon
Musk has done. Specifically, he's fired 80% of his staff. He's taken the step down from 7500
people to 1800, he's going to 1000. And there really isn't from the consumer in any discernible
impact on the product. Now, he's lost about 80% of us or 60 to 80% of his advertising revenue,
but people would argue that's a self inflicted wound. So in every board, people are asking
themselves how do we have the great taste of reduced costs without the calories of losing
revenue. So the business strategy circulating the majority of the growth economy is could we
lay out 10, 20, 30% of our employees, but manage to hold on to the majority of our revenues. That
is the easiest way to add shareholder value and the markets like it every time a company announces
layoffs, the stock goes up. The majority of people in this room have never really seen that type of
economy before. When I graduated from business school, 40% of my class had a job. So in other
words, 60%, two thirds of the class did not have a single job. My kids now when I say kids,
I mean my students on average have between three and five job offers out of NYU Stern,
average salary $212,000. Meaning if someone goes to work for a nonprofit for 100th grand,
there's somebody who's accepted a job at 330 or $350,000. That is much different. That is no one
ever feels overpaid. The majority of us in this room right now are overpaid.
Oh, I do have sound. If in the back, if you can hear this video, this video does have sound.
This is one of my favorite videos to kind of summarize the growth economy.
Can you imagine the fight over who would get to fire this person?
I have 300 kids in my class, about 30 or 40 of them go to work for Amazon, about 20 Google.
Literally big tech was coming in every year and hoovering up all human capital. It was a fight.
Like every manager's job usually at the end of the year, and I run growth companies,
is how do we keep the young people happy, right? It was just a constant question. How do we keep
people with us? How do we attract new people? That has flipped. I love these TikToks now of
people getting fired that day. My first piece of advice, because I don't think many of you have
been fired before. I've been fired from every job I've ever had. It's not about you. It's not a
statement on your character. It's not about the condition of your soul. It's usually about things
outside of your control. I think the tech community and the labor force was lying to you when they
said, bring your full self to work. Don't bring your politics to work. No one gives a shit about
your politics. Corporations are a platform to build economic security for you and your family,
and they might have pretended that they cared, but they don't. Don't think that when you get
fired or laid off, it's an assessment on you. No, it's not. It's about what's happening at the
time in the economy, almost always. You've got to put these layoffs in context, though. They make
for great headlines. Huge headlines. Amazon, Meta lays off 8,000 people from page. But this is how
many people they've hired since the beginning of the pandemic. So all these, quote, unquote,
mass firings are just taking them back to employment levels of 12 or 18 months ago.
This is still just a fraction of the people that human capital that they have brought into their
organizations in the last 36 months. The layoffs here, despite all the headlines, represent about
1% of non-farm payroll employment. We're obsessed with big tech, but it relates to the economy in
terms of market capitalization. It's big, but it's employment. It actually doesn't employ that many
people. 2023, the year of experiences. So if you looked at most things, most structural trends,
whether it's e-commerce, even teen depression. And you didn't know the pandemic had happened,
and it just maintained its current slope. Teen depression has been going up steadily since the
introduction of social on mobile. E-commerce has been growing high, single, low, double digits per
year. They've all kind of returned to where they would have been around the pandemic. The only thing
that appears to be the enduring change is work from home. That appears to be very, very sticky.
That's kind of the enduring change coming out of COVID, where if someone showed up and said,
how is the world different? How do we know something happened here? It would be remote work.
And the really disappointing work, or the Gene Twanging and Jonathan High just came out with,
is that we've been blaming depression of kids on COVID. And the reality is, if you look at the
trends of teen depression, what they found is, it wasn't COVID. It was social media that was doing
it. And some social distancing didn't create depression among teens. Social media did.
Ton of revenge travel, right? One of the wonderful things about coming out of COVID is people seem
to have a renewed sense of what's important, the finite nature of life, and people are going big
in terms of travel. Travel sites traffic up dramatically. New record for passports that
have been issued in the United States. China's returning to the tourism market. So that's new
wind in the sails. And people are spending a greater proportion of their disposable income
on travel. And then we're seeing huge demand returning. For the most part, the travel industry
is taking advantage of this. And using COVID as an excuse not to restore previous service levels,
I get to stay in very nice places, mostly because someone else is paying. And the way I would describe
luxury travel right now is six star prices with four star service. And as a result, their margins
have never been bigger. They're making up for the revenues that they were, that they lost through
COVID. It's a great time to be in the travel business.
Live entertainment is surging. People want to be around each other, which is a wonderful thing.
And also people have a renewed sense of the value of time versus money.
Okay, so everything in its own way is retail. And I would argue that the worst retail experiences
are grocery stores, airports and gas stations. Tesla didn't disrupt the auto industry, it disrupted
the gas station. If you spent 15 minutes a week in a gas station, that's 12 and a half hours a year
pulling in, smelling those carcinogens, worrying about getting shot. That is literally the worst
retail experience in America. How much would someone have to pay you to get up at six, get to the
gas station at seven in the morning, fill up, drive around the block and do that until seven
30 at night? You would probably pay a lot of money to avoid that. In addition, this industry
was so disruptible, mostly because of charging stations or mostly because of the gas stations.
I think disruption is more a function of how ripe an industry is to be disrupted
as opposed to the disrupting technology. It wasn't immediately obvious that Google was
going to disrupt the advertising industry, but the advertising industry had basically said,
we're going to triple our costs every 10 years, even despite the fact that our audiences are
shrinking, more expensive for less reach. It stuck out its chin. Grocery stores and department
stores really hadn't changed in about 30 or 40 years in the fists of stone of Amazon came for it.
Ad-supported cable television got worse and worse, but more and more expensive. Netflix came in at
12 bucks a month and disrupted that industry. The question then becomes, what industry is most
ripe for disruption? AI is clearly the technology, but more important than the technology is what
industry has an enormous chin sticking out right now. I'll come back and try and answer that.
Lines, we spent a lot of time in lines. I think that essentially, if you want to build a company
that's worth over $100 billion, you've got to build a time machine. If you just let your kids
watch Netflix and not broadcast television, that kid says it's 12 days a year in commercials.
Amazon has given you six days back at a spending time in department stores and grocery stores.
The majority of companies that get past $100 billion have effectively built time machines.
I love the company clear. I'm obsessed with trying to expedite everything. In terms of time,
you get that way as you get older. Most of these high-end luxury items are pretty much focused on
saving time. Peter Drucker, who is sort of my role model, an economist in the 60s, basically
said that every major business trend can be predicted by demographics. If you were to try
and find a demographic trend that's going to wag the tail, that it's a good thing to get behind,
and I did get behind this in 2010, I started a company doing business intelligence and analytics
for luxury brands because what I saw was that income inequality was about to become income
insanity. History repeats itself. Essentially, you have an economy that starts off as a collective.
Everybody wants to help each other. Wealthy people weaponize government, become more productive,
leverage technology, and slowly but surely figure out a way to lower their taxes and figure out a
way to engage in massive tax avoidance, to create more and more power, and will wring their hands
and be very concerned about what's going on. In the next year, the tax rate goes down.
Eventually, there's a revolution, and it starts all over again. We're at a point
right now where it's literally gone parabolic, and you've seen all this data about the 0.1%.
But if I were to say to people constantly coming to me and say, what industry would you be in,
I'm like, if I were just going to any industry serving the 0.1%, because the amount of disposable
income there, it's like that very basic adage that people used to tell young professionals,
get as close to the biggest pile of money, stand as close as you can to the biggest pile of money,
and everything will work out. And that pile of money is increasingly accreting to fewer and fewer
people. So social clubs, the 1% is now sequestering from everybody else, right? We allow visitors in
based on being super interesting or super hot as tourists. We give them a day pass,
but mostly we've decided we no longer want to hang out with the other 99%, even when we're socializing.
Anyone done one of these private tours at Disney? Disney just announced
pretty terrible earnings, but they were saved by one thing, the parks. What they didn't publish
was the thing driving a ton of incremental spend there is these private VIP tours,
where you pay somewhere between, I think, seven and 900 bucks an hour, a minimum of five hours.
So for about five to seven grand, you and five friends get to cut the line. I did this for the
first time last year. And it's physically uncomfortable when you get to the Avatar ride,
and they could hand out an iPad when you get in the line. And you could watch Avatar before
you actually get on the ride. The wait time is three hours if you only paid 160 bucks.
But if you paid 7,000, you and your kids get to cut the line, it's about three minutes,
and they give you a hand signal in case you want to go on it a second or a third time.
And this is the fastest growing part of the park's business. Think about the profits there,
a very high EQ, really nice young man from Kansas shows you around, takes you to a golf cart
behind the bowels of the three parks, so you can go on the two or three best rides at each of the
three parks. It's getting worse. And most of you have probably seen this on TikTok,
but this is where this is socialism, right? You start off thinking everyone should be equal.
It doesn't work, right? People engage in their own self-interest. That's what capitalism is,
taps into one of the most powerful motivators, and that is our own self-interest.
What we want, most people agree that the most productive, hardest-working people should make
more money. And then it's just gone absolutely insane. People really don't recognize just how
insane it's gotten. By the way, wealthy people usually don't talk about money because they see
this uncouth, which is really nothing but an attempt to keep poor people down by ensuring
they don't know how much money they actually are making and have relative to them. So they've
created this social dogma around talking about money. I think everyone should talk about how
much money they make. I think it's healthy because you're going to find out just how outrageous it
is about how some people at a certain level in your company or in society how much money they're
making. So for every $100 created in the past 10 years, 54 bucks went to the top 1%. That's globally.
It's actually much worse than that in G7 nations and even much worse in the U.S. 70 cents of it
went to the bottom half. So about $100, an incremental value created over the last 10 years,
70 cents of it went to the bottom half. It used to take 26 billionaires equal to bottom half of
America. Now it takes, excuse me, used to take 380 billionaires. Now it takes 26. By the end of next
year, there's probably going to be three people in the United States that are worth more than the
bottom half of America. That's the bad news. The good news is that incremental quality is usually
self-correcting. More bad news is the means of self-correction are usually war, famine, or revolution.
Don't you find it unusual that all of these rich people have their go-bags and their bunkers in
New Zealand or in Sonoma? I find it so nihilistic and disappointing that the wealthiest, most
resource and arguably the most intelligent among us decide to devote their resources to colonizing
other planets or taking us into another universe. As opposed to just trying to break this place
a little bit more fucking habitable. This is the wealthy weaponizing government. These are tax rates.
The greatest innovation in history wasn't the iPhone, wasn't chips, it was the middle class.
And that is we had 7 million men coming back from war and we decided to give them money to buy houses
and give them jobs, $500 billion infrastructure act, and that made them more attractive to potential
mates and we had the baby boom. The tax rate on the top 1% in 1945 was 92% because to sustain
the middle class, the greatest innovation in history took a lot of money. And so we recognized
that if we wanted a really progressive tax structure, we would have to tax people at a higher
rate. And in the spirit of transparency, just to give you a sense of how ridiculous things have
gotten, I buy or I start companies, I got very lucky. I sold one of my companies a few years ago.
The first $10 million to me, the founder, were tax free. I've invested in another company. I invested
two and a half million bucks in another company that just got purchased. The first $25 million to me
because of QSB will be tax free, zero tax rate on the first $10 million when you're an entrepreneur
or when you make a large capital investment in a small company. And people will say, well, okay,
but you're a productive citizen. You wouldn't start companies unless you had these tax breaks.
No entrepreneur knows the tax rates when they start a business.
My effective tax rate for the last decade has been 17%. That's my effect of tax rate,
and I'm very public about that. And there's another myth, and that is that lower and middle
income people are paying all the taxes. Actually, they're not. They pay a lot in consumption and
sales tax, but they actually pay very little federal income tax. The people who get most
screwed by our tax code are what I refer to as the workhorses. And that is they make between
$150,000 and a million a year. And it's all reportable. It's all current income. And they're
usually in order to make that kind of money have to live in an urban center that's usually a blue
state. And they're usually paying an effective tax rate of somewhere between 45% and 50%.
And they make enough money to live well. No one feels sorry for them. But until they have enough
money to start making investments where they register capital gains, they're paying tax rates of 45%
or 50%. Now, if they really start to live large and make a lot of money and can afford to put that
money into investments, then they make the jump to light speed. And their tax rate, once they get
to about the 99th percentile, starts to plummet. So we've effectively decided that if you win a
gold medal, we're going to take the silver and the bronze and give it to you too. Your tax rate
goes parabolic. Once you go over six figures, keeps going higher and higher until about a million.
And then it absolutely plummets once you get into the top 1%.
Luxury is the best business in the world. Wealthiest man in the world
didn't invent a search engine or a social media network. He basically creates artificial scarcity.
He creates desire. Wealthiest man in the world is, of course, Bernard Arnaud.
And these three guys now have wealth greater than the GDP of a bunch of nations.
Private flight, private travel won't bore you with this is up. This is an interesting stat and
that private luxury usually gains some popularity before an economic crash because people become
self-conscious about their wealth. I'm obsessed with succession and this kind of defines sort of
quiet luxury. No logos, just very expensive, beautifully crafted things that aren't very flashy.
Now, you might say, well, where do billionaires come from? The industry that's created the second
most billionaires is actually luxury. Tech has created more.
This is the best business in the world and that is creating artificial scarcity. And artificial
scarcity is essentially the strategy that unfortunately America has adopted. The strongest
brands in the world aren't Apple or Hermes or Nike. They're MIT and Stanford and Harvard.
And every day, me and my colleagues wake up and we ask ourselves one question.
How can I increase my compensation while reducing my accountability? And the way we do that,
the way we do that is we've adopted the ultimate strategy. We target the 0.1% and we adopt this
rejectionist exclusionary luxury positioning. And despite the fact we sit on endowments, again,
the size of some Latin American GDPs, we don't expand freshman seats. So we can take admissions
rates and take them way, way down and turn into a Birkenbag as opposed to public servants.
It makes alumni feel good. The value of your degree goes up when it gets harder to get into
your institution. The moment you have a house, you start taking an interest in the local review
board and basically come up with thoughtful ways to ensure that new housing never gets built.
Meaning that housing costs in the US have accelerated about the same price as a luxury
good. Once I have a tech company and it works, I'm going to weaponize government to make sure
new companies can't get born. Our entire economy has moved to a luxury artificial scarcity economy
where we create artificial scarcity to drive up prices that drive value to the incumbents and the
entrenched. This is how I explain it. For most of history, our species hasn't had access to
sugar, salt, or your fatty foods, so diabetes, right? Our instincts haven't caught up with industrial
production. So if you can create something that feels scarce, if you can convince people that
a Panerai watch is scarce, right, they artificially choke supply. So if I see one, I think I got to
buy one because I want to signal masculinity and strength. I'm dying soon, so I need to signal
this type of success, right? And they do a great job of creating art. This is not a difficult thing
to produce. It's about 1500 bucks of movement, plastic, glass, and leather that they sell for
about 12,000 bucks by creating this illusion of scarcity. When there's a scarcity of food,
a scarcity of mating opportunities, and now a scarcity of luxury items or scarcity of education
at an elite university, you can raise prices faster than inflation and aggregate a great
deal of wealth. And this is the only video I could come up with last night to explain it.
Three times last night, somebody here, that gets a plus.
Three times last night, someone offered me mushroom chocolates.
And I don't know, I don't know if that says something about you or something about me.
And the third time I said yes, and I just went back to my room and I watched this video about 80 times.
It was a pretty nice way to spend the night. I opened the window,
opened the window, kept asking myself, how high am I now? It was really nice. So you're out there and
thank you. It's the ultimate marketing strategy, create artificial scarcity, right?
And luxury has outperformed every other industry, again, all footing back to a demographic shift,
and that is the .1% are aggregating more and more wealth. And you may not feel rich. Every person
in this room is probably in the top 10% in their G7 economy. And if you make more than $40,000,
you're in the top of 1% globally in terms of income. Tremendous growth potential. This status
blew my mind. Hermes now has a larger market capitalization than Nike. Can you believe that?
Because most companies, if you can create artificial scarcity, you literally create a cash
picket. And I've worked with all of these companies that I'm talking about. I'm going to do a ton
of name dropping because I'm deeply insecure and desperate for your affirmation. But essentially,
Hermes, go into an Hermes store and say, yeah, I'll take that back. And they're like, oh, sir,
that's a three-year waiting list. This shit is not hard to make. These bags are not hard to make,
but they have done a genius job of creating a sense of artificial scarcity. So as a result,
if the CFO walks into the COO's office in Hermes and says, I need another literally
billion dollars in revenue over the next three months, the COO can do it. No problem. Just produce
another $15,000 average price point bag. We'll produce another 600,000 bags. There's your billion
dollars, 80 points of gross margin, $800 million in gross margin, $400 million in EBITDA. And the
analysts know that. So they can perfectly predict and calibrate. They make their projections because
if they're about to miss their projections, they just turn on the tap. There's very few companies
that are able to establish that type of scarcity or create a cash tap where all they need to do is
just open or throttle the spigot. So we've gone from luxury to ultra luxury. I love to travel. I
don't travel to cities or countries. I travel to hotels. I find hotels that look great. And that's
where I go on vacation. And you have seen basically the Ritz-Carlton, the Four Seasons,
which used to be sort of the top luxury brands, be bested. They were sort of for the top three or
four percent, but now 0.1 percent brands have come in because that's where a ton of incremental income
has happened. So you're seeing hotels where the average price point, the average price point is
$7,000 or $9,000 a night. And they're full. So you just have the Four Seasons, the Mandarin
Oriental and the Ritz-Carlton. And now you have Cheval and Blanc, Amen, Rosewood, Six Senses have
all come in and said no. The opportunity is in the 0.1 percent. So a weird prediction, but I'm
obsessed with football. You're going to see a massive increase in the value of sports teams
over the next 10 years. One, because as long as we're producing more and more billionaires
who happen to be in the midst of the midlife crisis, you're going to see a massive increase
in the value of these teams. And you're seeing it now. You're seeing an acceleration of the value
of sports teams. One, they actually benefit from some secular trends or structural trends.
The only content that doesn't look to be disrupted by, it's the only content we watch live now that
advertising still works. And it's also taps into people's emotions. You also have an entire region,
the Gulf, that has decided, okay, we need to improve our image. We have to pivot to a non-fossil fuels
based economy. We have 30 to 50 years to do that. We have infinite capital. So how do we do that?
How do we create a perception such that the most talented people in the world
want to come work, live, and be educated here? We have to upgrade our image. There's a smart
people they figured out, unlimited resources. So they used to advertise on Bloomberg and CNN and say,
invest in Malaysia, Qatar, a great place to live. And what they figured out is if they buy a football
team, they get some of that positive brand imagery. And they'll probably break even on a cash flow
basis, maybe lose some money. And then in 10, 20, or 30 years, the asset has increased in terminal
value. So this is the ultimate brand ROI expenditure if you're trying to upgrade the perception
of a country. So we're going to start to see the Gulf nations come into every league, buy leagues,
buy teams, because it's as if they could run a commercial. But then in 10 years, they get three
times the cost of the commercial back. It's also a fantastic way to cross over celebrity,
media, and the value of these things. I would imagine that Ryan Reynolds and Rob are probably
going to make five to 10x on their investment just over 24 months on rexom.
A little awkward being on his boat.
It's the bottom line. Billionaires as they, billionaire Republicans as they realize they're
not going to live forever, start buying football teams and billionaire Democrats by media companies.
This is kind of the ultimate expression of like you haven't wrapped your head around death yet.
I just like to slide.
And I'm here to announce that at some point, if I have another 30 or 40 exits, I'm going to buy
Rangers FC and Glasgow. I'm going to take my boys. I'm going to be really into the community
and they will love me. Okay. So the values of these sports teams is already accelerating.
There's going to be investor groups, SPACs. This is going to be kind of a new accelerating
luxury item. You're going to see all sorts of new investment opportunities. Someone
enterprising will put together a DAO and start buying teams and people like us will have the
opportunity to participate. And then I think you're especially going to see it in football.
Again, I'm biased here, but I think that these, this league or these teams appear to be global
brands or I think they're going to accelerate faster than any other global brands. You're going
to start hearing terms like, you know, Arsenal and Inter Milan that you didn't hear before or
that most people didn't hear before. These brands are going global. This is shocker. I'm really going
on a limb here. I said this a year ago. I have this kind of secret weapon for figuring out if
the technology is enduring. And that is I look at the amount of citations in academic journals.
And typically what you have is in academia, the whole academic research is really, it's a
wonderful thing. It sounds very basic, but it's really a wonderful thing. And that is you put
out, you publish something, you say, wow, I think I'm onto something about AI. And you publish it
and you publish your thesis and your research. And then someone, a colleague from Carnegie
Mellon or Tulane says, this is what you got right. And this is what you got wrong. And I'm going to
refute it. And if they can refute it, we actually celebrate them as long as they add value to it.
And we congratulate them. We still don't start shit posting each other on Twitter. We say,
okay, what you're saying is right. You've made my research better. And we have an enduring build
of intellectual property that ideally then floats into the private sector. And as you can see in
mobile and GPS, that build was slow and steady. And I would argue the mobile and GPS are probably
the most enduring technology of the last 30 years. Now, in contrast, let's look at the academic
research and citations of the metaverse and crypto. Right? Me and my colleagues, oh, the metaverse is
hot. Right? Oh, crypto, it's hot. Right? And then this is what happens. It just dies.
Look at the curve and artificial intelligence. It's very similar to the curve of mobile and GPS.
And I can't find any other technology that has the same citations or the same curve
of this, the most enduring technology other than AI. So every academic journal entry
has been improved upon. We've been thinking and talking and writing about this for a long time
and researching it. And it continues to get better and better and better in this, in my view, is in
fact an enduring technology. Every year, I'm a glass half empty kind of guy. I'm better at predicting
when technologies don't work. I have every year kind of the most ridiculous technology award.
Two years ago, it was the metaverse. Right? 40% of people who put on that headset feel nauseous
within 30 minutes. No one wants to go into an in cell panic room. These things, I think big tech
is a net positive for the world. I do not believe that of meta. And I could not have invented a
better strategy than to convince a young man to spend $1.2 billion a month on his big go
by a wasca dreams that people are going to want to go into a legless universe and hang out with
him and other people. I think we all have an obligation. If you, like me, think the people
who run meta are mendacious fox, I think that you have an obligation to talk up the metaverse.
Because my fear is they wake up from this consensual hallucination and start reducing the spend.
So I think it has real potential.
Five days to one million users, right? The curve on adoption and AI is blowing away everything.
We are in the fear-mongering part of the cycle. I am actually quite optimistic about AI,
which stands out, I think. And by the way, I trust on who I adore and have a lot of respect for,
is worried about this and I purposely wanted to go to his talk yesterday to get insight into why
he is worried about it. But what I see is that every new technology, it is easier to understand
the downsides, right? We knew that automation was going to fire a lot of people on the factory
floor and it did in the short term. But we did not anticipate heated seats or car stereos and
net employment in the automobile industry actually went up. And so, yeah, I think there is going
to be some job destruction. I think there will be some security risks. But the amount of new
businesses and opportunities by feeding your health records or spending patterns into these
LLMs, you are going to come up with all sorts of new businesses and new ideas.
Okay. I am going to skip this. Obviously, we had kind of peak hype cycle.
Everyone is talking about AI, right? It kind of reminds me of 99 when you just said,
Williamsonoma.com and your stock price went up. And everyone is trying to figure out on the dark
side here what industries it really destroys. So the Czech CEO made the mistake of saying that
he felt some pressure from chat GPT in the stock loss, 40% of its value in five minutes in the
aftermarket. So investor relations has really now become a story of spin. The number of journalists
over the last 30 years has been cut in half. The number of corporate PR executives, the number
of comms people at companies has gone up six-fold. So the ratio of bullshit to journalism has gone
the wrong way, 12X. The reason why is that three out of four companies that went public 30 years
ago were profitable. And we would assign a multiple within a fairly narrow range to get the valuation.
Now three and four companies that go public are not profitable, or at least over the last 10 years,
which means the narrative is more important than the numbers. So the core competence of every CEO
is to be a great storyteller and capture people's imagination, pull cheap capital forward such that
he or she can overinvest and run away from the competition. So as a result, the PR and comms
people manicuring Zuckerberg's image at Facebook now outnumber the number of journalists at the
Washington Post. Think about that. There's more people trying to kind of put wallpaper over these
lies that delay an obfuscation that is meta than there are journalists at the Washington Post.
Typically, technology is easy to create a bunch of new winners or they accrete to the existing
players, right? Search, socially commerce went to new players, mobile went to existing players,
you would argue cloud kind of went to existing players. So far it looks like the big bursts
of market capitalization are going to existing players because it requires substantial
infrastructure, specifically massive processing power.
Coming back to travel, I think there's enormous opportunities in travel and AI. I'm going to the
Eurofinals with my 12-year-old and we're playing with AI to try and create the ultimate weekend.
But you can see how this would be a tremendous time savings. Again, going back to time machines
to plan a great weekend. Give me a great weekend with six of my friends, all women in our 30s.
We want to go to Mexico. This is our economic weight class. These are our priorities and it
comes back with an itinerary. And then a series of questions. What else can I answer for you?
Do you want me to make reservations? Confirm now. Do you want me to send emails out to the six
friends? I mean, you can just see this is going to get really exciting, very fast in travel.
Okay. I had my first AI moment at LAX when I was coming in and I went to global entry and I
started putting my passport in and I heard Galloway and I'm a narcissist so I thought,
oh, it's a fan. And it was a woman from TSA saying, you're good. And so they're doing
facial recognition and learning on AI such that you can get right through the airport. I think
that's fantastic. By the way, I'm all for privacy violation as long as we have strong courts and
people to oversee or punish companies when they abuse that data. But the notion that if you give
a flying fuck about privacy is hilarious. As you'll tell everybody exactly what you're doing
everywhere. With a thin layer of AI, if Uber gets hacked, we're going to know if you're having an
affair, your HIV status, and if you terminated a pregnancy. It is going to be, you have given up
all privacy. This is the industry that AI will disrupt. And it's because it's the most disruptable
industry. The way to describe American healthcare is expensive and bad. It's outpaced inflation.
It is now the largest industry in our economy and only 20% of healthcare consumers are happy
with their healthcare. Think about that. It's raised prices faster than inflation for 30 or 40
years, and only one in five consumers are happy with their healthcare. We spend $12,000 per person
on healthcare. I mean, about Australia spends less than five. And yet we die much earlier. Think
about that. Mostly through death of despair, opioid addiction, suicide, right? But think about
just how ridiculous it is and also obesity, but that we have a nation that spends a lot
more than anyone else, and yet we're dying earlier. And again, terrible satisfaction.
So again, it's more about how disruptable an industry is than the technology itself. And I
think you're going to see, if I just was an economic animal, strong certification, some decent
options professionally, and I thought, where is the most wind going to be in my sail?
I would try and position myself somewhere between AI and healthcare, right? Where you feed in your
workouts, your nutrition, here's just my grocery bills. Here's my fitness app. Here's my AmEx receipts.
And here's my blood work. And I want this AI model to start managing my healthcare
and making recommendations and take healthcare from a defensive on your heels disease driven
application to an offensive health driven. And I think there's going to be all sorts of costs.
I don't have health insurance. And people hear that and they go, whoa, no health insurance.
Because health insurance for me and my family for the health insurance I want is $50,000 a year.
And because I have some economic security, I can absorb a big health scare. I could absorb almost
any health scare. And so I decided, all right, about 50% of our healthcare costs are not being
reimbursed. So I'm going to go without health insurance. I did that five years ago, a quarter
of a million dollars will buy a lot of healthcare. So what the healthcare industry has done,
especially the health insurance, the insurance part of the industry, which I think is the most
vulnerable 45% of all insurance costs in healthcare go to profits and administration,
meaning if you spent $100 on health insurance, you're getting $55 back. If you're a younger person,
you don't get $55, you get more like 25 or 35, because you're subsidizing people my age and older.
But we scare you. You're irresponsible. And what if you get really sick?
So again, it's another example of a very elegant transfer of wealth from young people to old people.
Under the same auspices of rejectionism or capital gains tax that rewards money more than sweat.
Who makes money off money? People my age. Who makes money off sweat? People your age.
Second biggest tax deduction in America, mortgage interest. Who owns homes? People my age. Who rents?
People your age. People over the age of 70 are 72% wealthier than they were 40 years ago. People
under the age of 40 in America are 24% less wealthy. Almost everything we do in America
is an elegant transfer of wealth from young people to old people. And we wonder why there's a birth
birth rates are off 20% in the last five years. And everyone's staring at their navels saying,
why young people having kids? It's because they can't afford them.
Want to see that again?
All right. We need a time machine in healthcare. Whoever builds it is going to make billions.
Right now it takes two hours for an in-person visit. A telehealth visit takes 13 to 15 minutes.
This is an enormous on-line. The mother of a child with diabetes, and let's be honest,
it's always the mom, spends five months of her year managing that child's healthcare. Think
about that. If a child with diabetes between the referrals, the applications, the insurance,
you spend five months of your year managing that child's healthcare.
The pandemic did bring an acceleration in remote healthcare. Only about less than 3% of visits
were remote. It went almost to 40% during the pandemic. It's come down, but it's still an enduring
part of our healthcare system remote visits. 38%. It's a huge unlock in mental health.
This is especially dominant or as seen as a real innovation in the mental health sector.
I think it's going to be big in fitness. I'm going to spend a lot of time there.
I'm going to cut to the end. I decided it would be fun to talk about space tourism being on a
Virgin boat. I think this is the most ridiculous business anywhere. Virgin Galactic was nothing
but an elegant transfer of wealth from retail investors who wanted to participate in the
FOMO tech economy such that Richard Branson could keep this ship operating during COVID.
We spent more time just got very awkward in here. We spent more time watching Jeff Bezos go
up in a dildo than talking about climate change in 2022. When Bob from accounting gets
emulated on the launch pad, this entire industry goes away. It is supposed to apply constraint and
demand constraint. There aren't that many people want to spend $400,000 to go three times as high
as you'll go on your way home. Space is really, really difficult. There's a reason they call it
space. It doesn't want you there. It immediately begins destroying material and basically attacking
any organism. It's a terrible business. Space exploration, another ridiculous business,
ridiculous idea. You've got to hand it to them. The view on Mars will take your breath away.
Literally, it will take your breath away. You can't breathe there.
This is the weather here. This is the weather on Mars.
Also, if you're a responsible person, you should absolutely take up base jumping before you go
into space. 550 people have gone into space. 11 have not come back. It has about 10 times the
mortality rate of base jumping. It's a very dangerous business. The part of space that
does make sense is space hauling, specifically space hacks. We need to get more defense and
communication equipment. It's essentially who can get things up reliably and cheaply. I think
space hacks is going to be more valuable than Tesla, mostly because Tesla's value will implode.
It's a car company, not a software or an energy company, but space hacks has figured out a way
to get heavy materials into orbit much more cost-effectively. I'm going to skip through this.
Loneliness. You've heard a lot about this this weekend. I'm working with Surgeon General Vivek
Murti, who is a very impressive and lovely man. Anytime you take one substance and transfer it
or transition it to another, there's externalities. Anytime you take X and turn it into Y for
economic gain, you're going to get externalities. We turn plant-based calories into beef-based
calories. We get methane and deforestation. We take fossil fuels and we turn them into petroleum.
Obviously, we get externalities in the form of carbon. I do not believe that carbon emissions
and climate change are the most serious threat facing humanity. I think there's another
externality that has arisen because of a conversion of one substance to another that is a
bigger threat. That is the conversion from advertising into dollars or specifically from
attention into advertising into dollars. Because what we figured out in the 50s, 60s, and 70s,
we thought it was sex that would keep you glued to your screen. What we have found out is that the
real sex that sells isn't sex, it's rage. As a result, the companies that are now
building the most shareholder value are the ones that basically are in the business of polarizing
and dividing and depressing. Why do I think it's the most dangerous emission? If we all hate each
other, we're never going to figure out a way to come to any sort of agreement or action plan around
the other things that ale us because we don't trust each other. The moment one group takes a
position on something, there's reason for the other group to suspect them and gas like them
or basically not believe it. It doesn't matter what it is. We used to be bipartisan around science,
but I know the algorithms like it when I say mRNA vaccines all to your DNA. We like that,
elevate that content because it pisses people off. We'll get more comments, more engagement,
more enragement, more engagement, more Nissan ads. The result is depression.
One in three teenage girls have contemplated suicide. One in five LGBTQ youth have attempted
suicide. I went back to my old high school, university high school in West Los Angeles a few
weeks ago, 2,000 kids, assuming somewhere between five and 10% identify as LGBTQ. It's 200. That
means 40 kids over the next three years are going to try and kill themselves.
When I was in high school, we had a memorial almost every weekend or every week we come in.
We'd say, oh no, we'd see a picture of somebody and a bunch of flowers and it was from almost always
it was from drunk driving. When I grew up, I lived in LA. There was no public transportation, huge
alcohol abuse, no airbags, mothers against drunk driving really hadn't kicked in and kids would
take to Sunset Avenue totally fucked up and get in an accident with no collapsible steering wheel
shaft or airbags and we had death all the time. Now it's no longer drunkenness or cars, it's depression.
The fear I do have around AI is that I worry that young people are entering into a series
of low risk, low payoff relationships. I'm going to convince myself I'm learning and that I'm
investing and I'm going to go on Coinbase. I'm going to convince myself I'm politically engaged
by going on Twitter. I'm going to convince myself I have friends but I'm not really experiencing
friendship and I think slowly but surely especially young men who have very few mating opportunities
because online dating is kind of consolidated mating where the top 5% of males get 80% of
the opportunities. They're going to engage in a low risk, easy, low barrier of relationships
with sex bots and AI trained girlfriends and I think this ultimately over time makes us depressed
that the reason we're happy, the reason we're joyous is we engage in victory.
We have obstacles that make the destination or the relationship more rewarding. There's a reason
the romantic comedies are 2 hours not 10 minutes. Supposedly if you or there's new research showing
if you smoked and had friends right or didn't smoke and had no friends you would live longer
if you smoked a pack a day and had friends and now 1 in 7 males don't have a single friend.
Now I mean think about that. Think about the amount of joy, think about the
prosperity, just a sense of self-worth, the laughter you've experienced with friends and 1
in 7 males in America doesn't have a single friend. I'm not going to play the clip on her
so I'm worried that slowly but surely we're going to start to replace human touch and what it means
to be a mammal and decide that you know trying to meet people is hard. Having the confidence to
approach someone and express romantic relationship while making them feel safe is a skill that young
men aren't establishing and so they'll turn to AI and slowly but surely they'll sequester themselves
from the rest of the world which I think leads to depression.
There's a woman who's now turned herself into a scalable girlfriend and she expects to make
five million dollars a month charging a buck a minute. I love this quote right it kind of
summarizes it all what is love if it's not grief persevering most of my philosophy I get from Disney
plus okay this is my last thing I'm a bit of a downer so let's try to end with some up note if
you look at our catastrophizing and how down we become about the world and how bad things
become a lot of it is the cadence of the news cycle news used to be 22 minutes once a day
then it turned into 20 hours and now that it's every 20 seconds on your phone with notifications
the only way to keep you on your screen is to catastrophize right things marginally better
today is not a good headline that doesn't work right so we want to create we have to create a
situation for the situation room so we constantly catastrophize and make ourselves feel worse about
the world in each other so if you looked and just took if you just took the perspective back and said
all right last year here's where the biggest headlines any headline you get every 20 seconds
is usually not a good headline but what if you went back five years still kind of bad
can anyone hear that or am I having a stroke it's like a rumbling thanks for that
if you went if you went back 50 years if you went one five ten the news if you had to pick
headlines the news gets progressively better the more perspective you have perspective is a
photographic term and the more you create the angle wider the better the news gets because the
reality is if you're honest with yourself and you look at anything from a long-term perspective
the news just gets hard to hard to deny it's pretty good what would the news be if you had one headline
for the last 50 years probably be unprecedented prosperity led by china in the us or that abject
poverty has been cut by 80 percent if you could only pick one or two headlines you'd have no choice
but probably to make them positive and if you could only have one headline for the last hundred
years what would it be that's a very good one life expectancy in china since the year i was
born has gone from 46 to now 76 and 500 million people have been bought out brought out of poverty
in china over the last 30 years but still i think that probably the headline for the last
hundred years would be that the west turned back fascism which is a great headline so as the cadence
of news has increased our sentiment has gone further and further down and we need some means of
self-correcting around all this negativity okay i'm not going to talk about how great it is to be
an american i think a lot about regrets in time and how fast it's barreling the majority of our
existence as a species we didn't live past 34 for about 99.9 percent of our time as homo sapiens
we lived to be about 30 or 34 we died in childbirth died in war conflict a broken bone or a bad cut
death so our brains literally can't process us past the age of 35 or 40 by the way by the time you
hit 38 you have trouble adapting to the way you look after that every day you look in the mirror
you're like shit because you can't process it because you're not supposed to be here in addition
you can't you can't get your mind around time and ask anyone in this audience over the age of 40
time literally begins to fall off a cliff years become seasons and i'm fascinated with what are
the biggest regrets at the end of your life my colleague adam alters done great work on this
and i only got another minute or so here and he does he spends a lot of time with people at the
end in palliative care and their regrets basically boil down to three things i wish i'd live the
life i wanted to live not the life that others wanted me to live i wish i'd stayed in touch with
friends and most importantly i wish i'd been less hard on myself i wish i'd forgiven myself
i think about this a lot is i'm barreling towards the end i'm an atheist i think at some point
i'll look into my kids eyes and know that our relationship is coming to an end and i find
it a source of power but if you're successful you live a lot in the past you call on your
credentials and your experience to try and inform your current actions and if you're like me and you
suffer from depression and anger you spend the majority of your waking hours in the past
god i can't believe what a fucking idiot i am i can't believe i did that i can't believe i said
that you're constantly beating yourself up right can't can't get past this immutable thing called
the past just can't get past it and if you're successful also also like me you're a lot in
the future you're constantly trading off the short term you're constantly planning i got on this
boat yesterday because i was supposed to speak at 330 i don't like boats i've never been on one
before i'm agoraphobic i don't like people much and so when i saw the boat was still docked i thought
i'm going to do this talk and bomb to miami airport get home and i was already planning
the tottenham spurs brentford game with my sons and what i was going to do with my free time i was
already in the future planning how to be more productive and chances are if i'd made that
football game i would have been on my phone virtue signaling that i was with my son checking the
amount of likes i got thinking about what i was going to do the next day never really there right
never you know always in the future always in the past never really there i like what sam harris
says the past is the most immutable thing in the world the future is the most mutable thing
unfortunately we don't have a lot of we don't have a lot of control over it but this is it this is
what we this is it this is the only really the only thing we have is the here and the now
and my biggest fear and i think about this a lot is that i'll be at the end and i'll look back and
i'll go oh my god unbelievable blessings staggering prosperity that i didn't expect people i love and
love me immensely right but i was never really there for it
and did my life happen so i leave us with a question
and it's something i ask myself all the time now are you here
that's all i got
you